TOPIC 1: 
INTRODUCTION
The rigour of fashioning a timetable for a large school with so many areas of compartmentalization could be, among other things, overwhelming. Teachers usually take on more than one subject and are required to fulfil the weekly quota of each subject they take, in all the classes (or class arms, should such exist) for which those subjects exist.

The timetable is thus constructed such that for all the periods available for each arm of each class for a single day, each teacher's teaching periods do not overlap for every subject and every class that they teach, so they would not be required to be in two places at the same time.

Setting up the timetable, more often than not, becomes very complicated very quickly as other requirements (double periods being one of many) often get thrown into the mix. The larger the school, the larger the teaching staff to pass subjects around, or the larger the number of subjects, the more complicated the problem tends to prove, especially when adjustments are required on the fly.
The launch of such a task presents itself as hectic, and would require a lot of permutation.
This what this application attempts to solve. By abstracting away all the rigmarole and rendering the results in an effective, workable format.
TOPIC 2:
DEFINITION OF TERMS
There exists the likelihood that some of the terms are used in this application might be a little confusing to new users. These terms are thus defined:

1. Day (as in School day).
Day, as used in this app, does not necessarily refer to its dawn-till-dusk meaning. It simply refers to the time frame (usually a day, hence the name) within which all the periods for a certain class feature. It spans the first and last periods of school for an (actual) entire day in real-life. For a typical school in South-Western Nigeria (where this app was initially written), the school day starts by 8:00 a.m. and runs till 2:00 p.m. unless there are arangements for afternoon classes. It is the first period all the way till the last.

2. Department:
The Department, much like its real-life meaning, is a container for the subjects provided by a school to its students. It is a catalogue for organizing subjects which share some level of decided-upon similarity.

3. Subject/Course
Subject (also, Course), as with "Day" above, may not always refer to the conventional meaning of the word in an academic setting, though it does, more often than not. A subject (course), with regard to the timetable, is any engagement which occupies one or more periods of a given class arm. 
Subjects occupy whole number values of periods e.g Music in the first period or Math in the first two periods. Two subjects can only exist for the same period(s) if they go concurrently and both run through till the end of the period, e.g Yoruba/Igbo languages occupy the last period.
Subjects do not always have to be academic; break-period (recess) or extracurriculars also count as subjects inasmuch as they fall within "Day". A subject is termed academic if it is handled by a teacher. Non-academic periods are termed "Special periods".

4. Period:
A period is the set duration within which a subject occurs. 
How long it takes is institution-specified. It is the very measure by which "Day" is calibrated.
Academic periods tend to have the same period duration, whereas, special periods might take varying lengths.

5.Teacher:
Fairly self-explanatory. A teacher handles the subject for a class at a given "Period" of the "Day". It is quite possible for a teacher to take on more than one subject, across one or more classes (or "arms" which would be explained shortly).

6. School Class Group:
Also termed "class group", this is simply a collection of all the classes across different levels or grades with a common property for ease of reference. This in real life is what we would call "Senior School", or "Junior High" in a school situation especially where more than one school class group might exist. For instance, the typical Nigerian secondary school has two class groups: Junior secondary school and Senior secondary school.

7. School Class Arm:
Sometimes, plainly referred to as "Arms", the school class arm is a sub-section of the school class, which in turn is a subset of the school class group. The arm is the compartment into which the school class divided, primarily to accommodate a number of students that exceeds the standard number of students studying together in the same class room and to allow for different specialisations between students of the same class, e.g. Sciences and The Arts. The school class arm is the literal classroom in which schoolwork is done.

8. School Class (or simply, Class):
The school class is a combination of all the arms that share one level of the academic hierarchy in the school setting. In the typical Nigerian school system, its arms are prefixed with the its name and alphabetized, e.g. JSS 1A, SSS 2B. This App can also render each arm of class in question numerically, e.g, JSS 1_1, SSS2_2


TOPIC:
MODEL STRUCTURE

The Class Hierarchy goes thus:
The class group > Class > Class arm

The Department hierarchy goes thus:
Department > Subject > Teacher

